---
cip: 102
title: Ownership Management Standard
description: A standard interface for managing ownership in smart contracts.
keywords: [cip, cip-102, ownership, standard]
author: Moji
lang: en-US
tags: [draft]
categories: [cbc]
date: 2023-11-23
---

Standardized Ownership Management for Smart Contracts

<!--truncate-->

## Abstract:
This CIP proposes a standardized way to handle ownership of smart contracts. The proposed standard abstracts ownership management, providing functions to transfer and renounce ownership securely.

## Motivation:
Ownership management is critical to smart contract security and governance. The proposed standard aims to provide a common, reusable, and secure pattern for managing ownership in smart contracts.

## Specification:
### The CIP-102 Standard
**State Variable:**
- `_owner`: Holds the address of the owner.

**Events:**
- `OwnershipTransferred`: Emitted when ownership is transferred.

**Constructor:**
Sets the contract deployer as the initial owner.

**Functions:**
- `owner`: Returns the current owner's address.
- `renounceOwnership`: Allows the current owner to relinquish ownership.
- `transferOwnership(address newOwner)`: Enables transferring ownership to a new address.

**Modifiers:**
- `onlyOwner`: Restricts function access to the current owner.

### Technical Details:
- Blockchain Compatibility: Core Blockchain (Ylem Version >0.8.0)
- Contract Functions:
    - `owner()`: Returns the current owner's address.
    - `renounceOwnership()`: Allows the current owner to renounce their ownership.
    - `transferOwnership(address newOwner)`: Transfers ownership to a new address.
    - `onlyOwner`: A modifier restricting function access to the contract's owner.
- Event: `OwnershipTransferred(address indexed previousOwner, address indexed newOwner)`: Emitted when ownership is transferred.

## Rationale:
The proposed standard simplifies ownership management in smart contracts, reducing the risk of unauthorized access and enabling clear governance structures. Its simplicity and clarity make it a suitable standard for various applications on Core Blockchain.

## Backward Compatibility:
The CIP-102 standard is compatible with all existing Core Improvement Proposals (CIPs) and does not interfere with existing blockchain architectures on Core Blockchain.

## Security Considerations:
Security is a primary concern in the design of the proposed standard. It includes checks to prevent unauthorized access and changes to contract ownership. Further security audits and reviews are recommended.

## Conclusion:
The CIP-102 Standard provides a simple and effective solution for managing ownership in smart contracts on Core Blockchain. It offers a clear and reusable pattern for implementing ownership-related functionalities essential for contract governance and security. By standardizing the approach to ownership management, the CIP-102 standard aims to reduce the risk of errors and vulnerabilities associated with ad-hoc implementations. This standard benefits contracts requiring a single owner or administrator, ensuring that critical functions are protected and governance is transparent.

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).