---
cip: 712
title: Core Signature Verification Standard
description: Standard for Securely Encoding and Verifying Structured Data Signatures in Core Blockchain Applications.
keywords: [cip, cip-712, standard]
author: Moji
lang: en-US
status: [draft]
tags: [cbc]
date: 2023-11-27
---

Core Signature Verification Standard

<!--truncate-->

## Abstract

CIP-712, the Core Signature Verification Standard, defines a standard for securely encoding and verifying structured data signatures in Core Blockchain applications. Core Signature Verification Standard enhances security and usability by allowing users to sign structured data, making it resistant to replay attacks and improving user experience.

## Motivation

The motivation behind CIP-712 is to provide a standardized method for encoding and verifying structured data signatures in Core Blockchain systems. This standardization simplifies the process of signing and verifying data, making it more secure and user-friendly.

This CIP aliases EIP712 to CIP712.

## Specification

Core Signature Verification Standard defines the following key components and processes:

### Typed Data

Core Signature Verification Standard introduces a structured data schema called "Typed Data," which includes a list of data types and their field names. This schema provides a clear definition of the data being signed.

### Encoding

The data specified in the Typed Data schema is encoded into a binary format before signing. This encoding ensures consistency in how data is presented to users for signature.

### Hashing

Core Signature Verification Standard defines a specific hashing mechanism for hashing the binary data. This ensures that the data hash remains consistent across different implementations.

### Signatures

Users sign the hashed data, creating a unique signature that represents their approval of the structured data.

### Verification

Smart contracts or applications can then verify the signature against the original Typed Data and public keys to ensure the authenticity of the data.

## Usage

Core Signature Verification Standard can be utilized in various Core Blockchain applications, including decentralized finance (DeFi), governance systems, and more. Users can sign structured data, and smart contracts can validate these signatures to enable secure interactions.

## Backward Compatibility

Core Signature Verification Standard is designed to be backward-compatible with existing Core Blockchain standards, ensuring seamless integration into the Core Blockchain ecosystem.

## Security Considerations

Security audits and reviews are crucial for any implementation of Core Signature Verification Standard to identify potential vulnerabilities and ensure the robustness of the signature verification process.

## Conclusion

CIP-712 provides a standardized approach to structured data signature verification in Core Blockchain applications. Its adoption can enhance security and usability in a wide range of decentralized systems.

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
